Add account_mptokens and account_mptoken_issuances Clio methods (#3754)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: docs/references/http-websocket-apis/public-api-methods/clio-methods/account_mptokens.md

---
seo:
    description: Get the MPTokens held by a given account as of a given ledger.
labels:
  - Accounts
  - Multi Purpose Tokens, MPTs
---

# account_mptokens

[[Source]](https://github.com/XRPLF/clio/blob/develop/src/rpc/handlers/AccountMPTokens.cpp "Source")

> The `account_mptokens` method returns information about the [MPToken entries][MPToken entry] ledger entries held by a given account, including their balance. This method may return large data sets, so you should expect to implement paging via the `marker` field. This API is only available using Clio, not `xrpld`. {% badge href="https://github.com/XRPLF/clio/releases/tag/2.7.0" %}New in: Clio v2.7.0{% /badge %}

Reviewer: - Instead of linking "deeper" to the reference for MPToken entries, this is a place where you should "backlink" (shallower) to the MPT concept.
- Remove duplicated word "entries"
- Move the Clio-only sentence to a separate paragraph and use the word "method" (specific to an individual endpoint) instead of "API" (could be collective). The existing docs are inconsistent in how the Clio-only sentence is phrased and placed, but I like how `ledger_index.md` has it.

```suggestion
The `account_mptokens` method returns information about the [MPTs](/docs/concepts/tokens/fungible-tokens/multi-purpose-tokens) held by an account, including their balance. This method may return large data sets, so you should expect to implement [pagination][Marker]. {% badge href="https://github.com/XRPLF/clio/releases/tag/2.7.0" %}New in: Clio v2.7.0{% /badge %}

This method is only available using Clio, not `xrpld`.
```

## Request Format

{% tabs %}

{% tab label="WebSocket" %}
```json
{
  "command": "account_mptokens",
  "account": "rLEw4taUYTNLs3ZCv3vyXGmct8PagQ9GcF",
  "ledger_index": "validated"
}
```
{% /tab %}

{% tab label="JSON-RPC" %}
```json
{
  "method": "account_mptokens",
  "params": [
    {
      "account": "rLEw4taUYTNLs3ZCv3vyXGmct8PagQ9GcF",
      "ledger_index": "validated"
    }
  ]
}
```
{% /tab %}

{% /tabs %}

{% try-it method="account_mptokens" /%}

The request contains the following parameters:

| Field          | Type                      | Required? | Description |
|:---------------|:--------------------------|:----------|-------------|

> | `account`      | String                    | Yes       | The unique identifier of an account, typically the account's address. |

Reviewer: This phrasing is outdated and roundabout. I suspect it was copied from the `account_mpts.md` file which was itself copied from [an archaic version of `account_info.md`](https://github.com/XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal/blame/15c21d68a8367b1a1b65cd9f62a108ed06b0fcf9/content/references/http-websocket-apis/public-api-methods/account-methods/account_info.md#L64) (or another page that was copied from it).

Back then, the `account` field of many methods used to accept a whole bunch of other formats down to the passphrase (so you could do `"account": "masterpassphrase"` to look up the genesis address rHb9CJAWyB4rj91VRWn96DkukG4bwdtyTh). That was changed in #1976 with the release of `rippled` 1.11.0 which finally removed support for non-address options.

In the modern day, there's no reason to say "the unique identifier..., typically" since the other formats are not accepted. Instead, use something like this:

```suggestion
| `account`      | String - [Address][]      | Yes       | Look up MPTs held by this account. |
```

> | `ledger_index` | [Ledger Index][]          | No        | The [Ledger Index][] of the max ledger to use, or a shortcut string to choose a ledger automatically. See [Specifying Ledgers][]. |

Reviewer: Is the word "max" here a typo?

```suggestion
| `ledger_index` | [Ledger Index][]          | No        | The [Ledger Index][] of the ledger to use, or a shortcut string to choose a ledger automatically. See [Specifying Ledgers][]. |
```

| `ledger_hash`  | String                    | No        | A 32-byte hex string for the ledger version to use. See [Specifying Ledgers][]. |
| `marker`       | [Marker][]                | No        | Used to continue your query where it left off in paginating. |

> | `limit`        | Number (positive integer) | No        | Specify a limit to the number of `MPTokens` returned. |

Reviewer: What is the maximum value for `limit`? I can confirm from testing that it is less than 99999999999999999999, which throws an `invalidParams` error. But it's also possible there's a soft limit that larger numbers are silently clamped to.

## Response Format

{% tabs %}
{% tab label="WebSocket" %}
{% code-snippet file="/_api-examples/account_mptokens/ws-response.json" language="json" /%}
{% /tab %}

{% tab label="JSON-RPC" %}
{% code-snippet file="/_api-examples/account_mptokens/jsonrpc-response.json" language="json" prefix="200 OK\n\n" /%}
{% /tab %}

{% /tabs %}

The response follows the [standard format][], with the result containing the following fields:

| Field          | Type             | Description |
|:---------------|:-----------------|:------------|

> | `account`      | String           | The address of the account whose MPTokens were queried. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `account`      | [Address][]      | The account whose MPTokens were queried. |
```

| `mptokens`     | Array            | An array of [MPToken](#mptoken) objects held by the account. |
| `marker`       | [Marker][]       | Used to continue querying where we left off when paginating. Omitted if there are no more entries after this result. |
| `limit`        | Number           | The limit, as specified in the request. |

> | `ledger_hash`  | String           | The hash of the ledger version used to generate this response. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ledger_hash`  | [Hash][]         | The hash of the ledger version used to generate this response. |
```

| `ledger_index` | [Ledger Index][] | The index of the ledger version used to generate this response. |
| `validated`    | Boolean          | If `true`, the ledger has been validated by the consensus process and is immutable. Otherwise, the contents of the ledger are not final and may change. In Clio, this is _always_ true as Clio stores and returns validated ledger data. |

> #### MPToken

Reviewer: It's mildly confusing to call these "MPToken" objects when they're a synthetic simplification of an `MPToken` ledger entry. Maybe call them "MPT objects" to distinguish?

Each `MPToken` object has the following fields:

| Field             | Type             | Description |
|:------------------|:-----------------|:------------|

> | `mpt_id`          | String           | The ledger index (key) of the `MPToken` object. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `mpt_id`          | String           | The [ledger entry ID][] of the `MPToken` ledger entry for this MPT. |
```

> | `account`         | String           | The account address of the holder who owns this `MPToken`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `account`         | [Address][]      | The holder of this MPT. |
```

| `mpt_issuance_id` | String           | The `MPTokenIssuanceID` of the [MPTokenIssuance entry][] that this `MPToken` is associated with. |
| `mpt_amount`      | Number           | The amount of tokens currently held by the account for this issuance. |

> | `locked_amount`   | Number           | _(May be omitted)_ The amount of tokens currently held in escrow or otherwise locked. Omitted if the `MPToken` has no locked balance. |

Reviewer: If the entire MPT balance is "locked" (i.e. frozen) is this amount the full amount, or not? Might be worth a note to distinguish, or maybe avoid using the phrase "otherwise locked", if MPT-locking-and-by-that-I-mean-freezing doesn't change this.

Author: Locked terminology is so confusing. `locked_amount` is only related to escrow. Will make this clearer.

| `mptokens`     | Array            | An array of [MPT objects](#mpt-objects) held by the account. |
| `marker`       | [Marker][]       | Used to continue querying where we left off when paginating. Omitted if there are no more entries after this result. |
| `limit`        | Number           | The limit, as specified in the request. |
| `ledger_hash`  | [Hash][]         | The hash of the ledger version used to generate this response. |
| `ledger_index` | [Ledger Index][] | The index of the ledger version used to generate this response. |
| `validated`    | Boolean          | If `true`, the ledger has been validated by the consensus process and is immutable. Otherwise, the contents of the ledger are not final and may change. In Clio, this is _always_ true as Clio stores and returns validated ledger data. |

### MPT objects

Each MPT object has the following fields:

| Field             | Type             | Description |
|:------------------|:-----------------|:------------|
| `mpt_id`          | String           | The [ledger entry ID][] of the `MPToken` ledger entry for this MPT. |
| `account`         | [Address][]      | The holder of this MPT. |

> | `mpt_issuance_id` | String           | The `MPTokenIssuanceID` of the [MPTokenIssuance entry][] that this `MPToken` is associated with. |

Reviewer 2: `mpt_issuance_id` is represented by a `UINT192` number, so it should be Number instead.
https://github.com/PeterChen13579/rippled/blob/43d842926a8c7a154062a90d389e526be3e89d2e/include/xrpl/protocol/detail/sfields.macro#L166

Author: @PeterChen13579 I tested this to double check, and what Clio returns seems to be a hex string? As we are documenting what the response outputs, String seems correct.

```json
{
  "result": {
    "account": "rLEw4taUYTNLs3ZCv3vyXGmct8PagQ9GcF",
    "ledger_hash": "5003C3CF1AE2ECDB42ED027C4CBF31FF0AAE9CA045FC91511EE5C259EF665C20",
    "ledger_index": 106398788,
    "validated": true,
    "limit": 200,
    "mptokens": [
      {
        "mpt_id": "CC043159A7647CDB51F41C1DF4985D654CD1635A62299B2522B9E184D8A0573F",
        "account": "rLEw4taUYTNLs3ZCv3vyXGmct8PagQ9GcF",
        "mpt_issuance_id": "062B590488AF241E0720C1D54DD12798D8B0A05E7B147EE0",
        "mpt_amount": 2412500,
        "mpt_authorized": true
      }
    ]
  },
  "id": "example_account_mptokens",
  "status": "success",
  "type": "response",
  "warnings": [
    {
      "id": 2001,
      "message": "This is a clio server. clio only serves validated data. If you want to talk to rippled, include 'ledger_index':'current' in your request"
    }
  ]
}
```

I've added information on the underlying type if that helps.

Reviewer 2: @maria-robobug , yes there is a current change in clio as this was incorrect: Here's the PR to change `mpt_issuance_id` to a Number: 
https://github.com/XRPLF/clio/pull/3178

Author: Got it, that seems to be planned for 2.8.1 release, so I'll add that change in a separate PR.
